Introduction
Internet shutdown doesn’t necessarily mean a complete loss of connectivity. The disruption can occur in several forms like reduction in bandwidth, blocking destinations, filtering protocols, and loss of international routes. Despite these restrictions, domestic networks can still communicate with each other [bischof2023shutdowns, ooni2025bangladesh]. Baltra et al. described the groups that lost the core internet connection but still can communicate locally as “islands” [baltra2024connectivity]. They also described networks that still have limited connection with the internet as “peninsulas” [baltra2024connectivity]. They have explained how these disrupted situations can be identified and developed measurements for them.  Our work focuses on developing a system which can continue working in these crucial situations. Our system tries to answer a specific question: if the international routes are cut but domestic IP connection remains connected and a forum server works independently, whether they can receive signed posts and synchronize those posts across the network? 

Other existing systems focus on a related problem which is not exactly similar to ours. Circumvention systems are designed to reach a blocked region. Telex depends on cooperation from network infrastructure to help a blocked user to reach outside the network. On the other hand, Snowflakes does this through proxy servers [wustrow2011telex, bocovich2024snowflake]. In their cases, all of them have to reach either the network infrastructure or the proxy server.  But in case of internet cut, they can reach neither them when all external paths are unavailable. Anix, Rangzen, Moby, and Twimight tried to construct a device-to-device or mobile mesh network for a situation where general internet access is not available [kamali2025anix, lerner2016rangzen, pradeep2022moby, hossmann2011twimight]. They have used technologies such as Bluetooth or Wi-Fi, where messages pass from one device to another nearby device and the device relay the message farther after receiving it. Though they can continue to messaging while complete blackout, message delivery may take huge time due to network congestion, mobility, intermittent device etc. Also, they might waste additional power and resources of the device. So far we’ve studied, none of them have studied if independent servers can continue to check, store and relay messages maintaining a strong local network. Our research addresses this gap and tries to find a solution. 


Our designed system follows a principal rule: author signs a fixed sequence of bytes, receiving server verifies it without changing any bytes. While forwarding an object through a relay, it can never be repaired, normalized or re-encoded. When a server accepts an object, it then issues a receipt which is cryptographically bound to object’s content id and acceptance proof. It not only provides the object’s content ID, but also proves that the server accepted the canonical content identified by that ID. Synchronization starts from the caller server, so the server which can’t receive incoming connections, can also publish objects and restore missed objects from other servers. If two islands can’t communicate directly, they pass messages through a trusted bridge server which is connected to both.  The bridge server can verify, save and relay objects. Just like other servers, it does an admission check of the objects. 

 This paper makes mainly 4 contributions:
1.	Server follows same byte preserving admission process for both locally saved object and object found from other servers. So, a protocol-compliant relay does not change a malformed object into a valid one.
2.	It supports caller-initiated delivery, streaming and backfill. So, even if a server can’t accept an incoming connection, can still publish and recover objects by establishing an outbound connection to known peer. 
3.	It defines a quota bound relay policy. Relay verifies the object again, checks quota. Most importantly, it doesn’t send the object back to the server again from which it has received it. A trusted peer may get larger quota and access to additional traffic classes while sending or receiving messages. But it doesn’t mean that a post by truster peer is automatically valid. 
4.	It reports a result from a testbed where connection between islands were disconnected while experiment. The experiment also includes cross-language byte agreement tests, performance change with respect to increasing hop, flood of invalid signatures and a comparison with ActivityPub.
Our claim is limited to partition tolerance only when some IP paths remain between servers directly or through a bridge. This proposed designed cannot create a new route during complete blackout. This cannot force a server to accept a valid post or hide any visible relay from its hosting network operator. 
Background and Research Gap

Federated and Signed System
ActivityPub directly delivers social activities to the server’s inbox [activitypub]. AT protocol supports federation and repository replication [matrixspec, atproto]. Nostr and Secure Scuttlebutt replicates object signed by the author [nostr, tarr2019ssb].  They generally assume that some relevant server, relay, or peer endpoint remains reachable. But none of them has evaluated exact-byte admission, operator receipts, restoration through outbound connection and relay policy for connection between two network islands.

Communication During Blackout
Anix, Rangen, Moby and Twimlight establishes a network connecting nearby devices [kamali2025anix, lerner2016rangzen, pradeep2022moby, hossmann2011twimight]. Dolphin uses cellular voice channel when normal packet is blocked [sharma2023dolphin]. These systems work without internal server connection. But they sacrifice bandwidth, devices extra power consumption and network capacity. Our system chooses the opposite trade-off: when the servers are connected, it establishes connection between them, but can’t work when all IP paths are totally disconnected. Those systems don’t compete with one another, rather they complement each other. So, this paper doesn’t compare their latency, because they are designed for different workloads. 

Accountability: 
Append-only logs, signed tree heads and inclusion proofs has been created to audit certain kind of harmful behavior father by certificate transparency [rfc6962, rfc9162].  PeerReview and CoSi explores several stronger forms of accountability by using witnesses and cosigning [haeberlen2007peerreview, syta2016cosi]. Our receipt has been kept comparatively weaker intentionally. It only proves that an operator has acknowledged a specific content ID at a stated time. It doesn’t prove that operator will receive valid object, will forward object faster or object will not be rejected silently.


Study gap and design objective

There is a difference currently present two fields. Normally routed federation assumes that server is always directly connected to the network. On the other hand, device to device assumes that network is totally disrupted. We’ve studied an intermediate situation between them where independent servers are working and there exists internal paths while the international routes are completely disconnected. In this situation, our goal is to admit each signed object once per server, keep its signed bytes unchanged, and allow every reachable server using the same rules and prerequisite state to reach the same validity decision. 

